docs/database.md, before:

## **Database**

![assets/database.png](assets/database.png)

**Document**

A document is a shared application state. Each user can have a copy of the document locally on several devices (which may belong to the same user, or to different users). Each user can independently update the application state on their local device, even while offline, and save the state to local disk. If the state was changed concurrently on different devices, *Automerge* automatically merges the changes together cleanly, so that everybody ends up in the same state, and no changes are lost.

- *key*. Each document is identified by a strong shared secret, also called
  a symmetric key.
- *discoveryKey.* A hash of the key which is used to discover other peers with
  this key to not divulge the original symmetric key

**Message**

A message is an object that represents a single message withing a linear chat
history between two users. The following fields are part of messages in the
document. 

- *timestamp:* Clock time that the message was received for display purposes.
- *text:* Text accompanying the message
- *filename:* The local filename of any content attached to this message.
- *mime_type:* The mime type of this file.

**Contact** 

A contact card is a type of document that represents other users. The following fields are part of messages in the document 'content'. 

- *moniker*. This is a name that represents the contact.
- *last_seen (optional):* A timestamp representing the last (local clock) time this contact was seen.
- *public_key* (*optional).* The public key of this contact. This public key could be used to provide end-to-end encryption in later versions of the application.

**Backchannel**

- *dbNAme*: This is the name of the database which will be saved in IndexedDb.
- *device_id (optional)*: This is a unique randomly-generated identifier for this device. The device_id should only be generated once when the application is opened the first time. This is used for identifying and merging changes between different devices. the *device_id* should be persisted to disk in a location separate from application data to minimize risk of loss.
- *keypair (optional)*: This is a public/private keypair. This can be imported from an existing keyring or generated when the application is opened the first time. The keypair can be overridden or replaced in certain circumstances (e.g., revocation). This keypair could be used to provide end-to-end encryption with contacts in later versions of the application.

**Settings**

The settings object can be accessed and edited by the user.

- *relay_server*: This is the URL to use for relaying data between contacts. By default it uses the magic wormhole relay server. Some users may want to use their own server and this gives them the option to configure this value. *tbd other magic wormhole options. In later version of the application we may expose more magic wormhole options, but first version will only offer the relay server.*

Commit message:

Package into a library (#144)
* My attempt at packaging spake2

* add experiments

* add tests back

* add tests for wormhole

* add transform ignore pattern for localfirst

* test: get tests working again

* Remove dependency on codes in this repo, move to consumer

* chore: some tooling fixes

* remove optimizations

* use webpack experimental loader

* compile with webpack 4

* Update deps

* fix: change export of library

* webpack5 experiment

* export types

* remove base64-loader

* improt wormhole aynchronously

* Create simple example now that this works

* update text for invitation code timing out

* update the example to add to contacts

* use name not moniker

* use name not moniker and only test src/

* chore: lint

* Update docs readme

* Some code cleanup! and in the process, fixed files ;)

* update docs

* add more docs

docs/database.md, after:

## **Database**

![assets/database.png](assets/database.png)

**Message**

A message is an object that represents a single message withing a linear chat
history between two users. The following fields are part of messages in the
document. 

- *timestamp:* Clock time that the message was received for display purposes.
- *type:* 'file' | 'text' | 'tombstone' | 'ack'
- *target*: The intended recipient of the message
- *incoming?:* If the message was incoming or outgoing

**Contact** 

A contact card is a type of document that represents other users. The following fields are part of messages in the document 'content'. 

- *id*. A string representing a local representation of that user (a uuid) which is not globally identifying, just for local indexing purposes
- *name*. This is a name that represents the contact.
- *last_seen (optional):* A timestamp representing the last (local clock) time this contact was seen.
- *key*. Each contact is identified by a strong shared secret, also called a symmetric key.
- *discoveryKey.* A hash of the key which is used to discover other peers with


**System**

- *dbName*: This is the name of the database which will be saved in IndexedDb.

**Settings**

The settings object can be accessed and edited by the user.

- *relay*: This is the URL to use for relaying data between contacts. Some users may want to use their own server and this gives them the option to configure this value.
